# Damage_Assessment_Tool

Background: Efficient coordination among the different functions is crucial in a disaster response effort. It can mean the difference between life and death, between loss and safety. It can minimize the misallocation of resources. It can reduce redundancy. To facilitate such coordination is the timely transfer of pertinent information among the key players who may be geographically dispersed with varying communication capabilities. We wish to build a suite of tools to assist in disaster response. The information collected during the disaster response can also be utilized by disaster managers during the disaster recovery, mitigation and preparedness stages to not only improve response efforts in future disasters but also to implement measures that can reduce their effects in the first place. One of these tools is the Damage Assessment Tool specifically for telecommunication facilities.

Objectives: The Damage Assessment Tool collects data on the damage and needs caused by disaster events. Field agents deployed at various locations interface with the system via a suitable web-portal, and upload information through appropriate web-forms. This information, which would be stored in a database, can be accessed by disaster managers to assist them in allocating resources for the response effort. Stored in the database should also be the pre-disaster status of existing assets, infrastructure and property, so that comparisons can be made and the damage more accurately measured. The tool should also provide a web-based map that associate damage assessment reports by location, so that disaster managers can have better situation-awareness. The tool should also provide for the upload of photos and videos of the disaster zone. Disaster managers should be able to perform suitable queries and other permissible Create-Read-Update-Delete (CRUD) operations on the system via the web-interface. There should also be graph-generating functions available for more reporting purposes. Besides field agents and disaster managers, members of the communities impacted can also interface with the tool by uploading photos, via twitter and a message board. These should be stored in the database. Suitable data mining algorithms should be implemented to help the disaster manager have a clearer picture of the situation. There should be secure sign-in with tiered access. The focus of this tool would be on telecommunication facilities.

Implementation and Methodology: Outline and explain the main functions of emergency/disaster response and the Incident Command System Conduct a review of standards and/or best practices related to damage assessment Perform desktop research regarding telecommunication assets, facilities and functions Develop a complete Systems Requirements Specification Design and implement in Mongoose the data schema for the system with suitable validation and error control. Design and implement the software system using the MongoDB-ExpressJS-Angular-NodeJS (MEAN) stack for web development. Document fully using the System Design Document template that will be provided. Comprehensively test the software tool and document this fully using the Software Test Document template that will be provided. Create a Git repository of the project which is linked to a GitHub account for version control and review.

Summary of Requirements: MEAN stack (i.e., MongoDB and Mongoose, ExpressJS, Angular, NodeJS)

Prerequisite Skills and Knowledge: Javascript programming

General Software Requirements: Recommended source-code editor: - Visual Studio Code Base installation: MongoDB, NodeJS, ExpressJS and Angular.
